# Flood Insights: Fusing Remote and Social Sensing Data for Flood Extent, Damage, and Urgent Needs Mapping

The absence of comprehensive situational awareness information regarding flood extent, damage inflicted, and the pressing needs of the affected population poses a significant challenge for government agencies and formal response organizations in their relief and response efforts. We present, Flood Insights, an end-to-end system, that ingests data from multiple non-traditional data sources, namely remote sensing, and social sensing, and employs state-of-the-art natural language processing and computer vision models to identify flood extent, ground-level damage and flood reports, and most importantly, urgent needs of affected people. The system relies on various types of geospatial data (e.g., nightlight-based urban and rural regions, age and gender breakdown from Worldpop) to provide disaggregated insights at national and sub-national levels. We deployed and tested the system during a recent real-world catastrophe, the 2022 Pakistan floods, to surface critical situational information for disaster responders. We observed 11.48\% of the entire country was inundated, which put 18.9 million at risk, with a gender breakdown of 9.3 million females and 9.7 million males. Through social sensing data, districts with high damage caused by flooding were identified. Across all 160 districts, shelter requests were the highest (20k reports) followed by donation and rescue requests (19.7k and 19.1k, respectively). The processed information and findings from the system were conveyed to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) stationed in Pakistan, as well as local authorities, who considered it to be valuable information.
